✅ If it shows * main, you are on the right branch.

Pull the latest updates from GitHub:

git pull origin main
Version control, also known as source control or revision control, is a system that tracks and manages changes to files, primarily source code in software development. It allows teams to collaborate on projects by providing a way to track modifications, revert to previous versions, and manage different versions of files. 
Here's a more detailed explanation:
Tracking Changes:
Version control systems record every change made to files, creating a history of modifications. 
Reverting to Previous Versions:
If a mistake is made or a previous version is needed, version control allows you to easily revert to an earlier state of the file or project. 
Collaboration:
Version control systems facilitate collaboration by allowing multiple developers to work on the same project simultaneously, merging their changes and resolving conflicts. 
Types of Version Control:
There are two main types:
Centralized: A single central repository stores all the versions, and developers work on copies of the files. 
Distributed: Each developer has a complete copy of the repository, allowing for offline work and easier collaboration. 
Benefits:
Version control is crucial for: 
Protecting source code: Preventing accidental loss or corruption of valuable code. 
Enabling collaboration: Allowing teams to work together efficiently and effectively. 
Streamlining development: Making it easier to track changes and manage different versions. 
Improving code quality: By enabling developers to easily review and revert changes. 
Increasing development speed: By facilitating efficient collaboration and reducing development time. 
Examples of Version Control Systems:
Git, Subversion (SVN), and Mercurial are popular examples of version control systems. 
What is version control | Atlassian Git Tutorial
Version control, also known as source control, is the practice of tracking and managing changes to software code. Version control ...

Atlassian

Version control - Wikipedia
Version control (also known as revision control, source control, and source code management) is the software engineering practice ...

Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Version Control Systems - GeeksforGeeks
26 Jul 2025 — CVS is one of the earliest and most influential centralized version control systems. It was widely adopted in the late ...

GeeksforGeeks

Show all
